

MILO POLTE


------------------------------------------------------------------------

762 Shotwell St                                      milo.polte@gmail.com
San Francisco, CA 94110                                   github.com/sqrl
Phone: 607-280-3615

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Work Experience

2012-2015

    _Software Engineer and Manager/Tech Lead for WibiData, Inc_ (San
    Francisco).

    Fourth employee at a Big Data startup that grew to over forty,
    surviving one name change and three changes to the logo. Technical
    work was the development of a platform for personalized applications
    on top of Hadoop, HBase, and Cassandra. Our platform was used in
    production to deliver product recommendations at two large retail
    customers, including holiday traffic.

    I was the project/tech lead on the effort to open source our
    software stack, responsible for breaking down the entire effort into
    manageable, prioritized tasks for the team. This was the beginning
    of the Kiji Project. Later, I also was the tech lead on our earliest
    real time scoring component, Kiji Scoring

    As we grew, I transitioned to a dual technical-managerial role,
    managing ten direct reports during my tenure (a maximum of five at
    one time).

    My last position was Tech Lead/Manager of the platform team,
    responsible for the lowest level core technologies in WibiData’s
    architecture as well as our internal build tools and scripts.

2011 (3 months)

    _Software Engineer at Panasas_ (Pittsburgh, PA).

    Internship after leaving grad school. Relevant project work was the
    instrumentation of a FreeBSD kernel driver to implement QoS I/O
    scheduling in network attached storage devices for our parallel,
    distributed filesystem.


Technologies and Skills

Python
    Most of my recent technological work has been in Python. Author of
    devtools and small build components, e.g. packrat.

Java
    Experienced coding distributed applications and map-reduce programs
    in Java. I’ve also used Scala but am less familiar with it.

Hadoop Stack
    I’ve used a variety of technologies in the Hadoop ecosystem for
    model training and analytics: MapReduce, Yarn, HBase, Hive, Scaldng,
    etc. This space is always moving and I’ve had to port our ecosystem
    to different versions of the Cloudera Distribution of Hadoop and
    others, dealing with the bugs and changes along the way.

SCRUM and hygienic coding
    I was one of the first scrum masters at WibiData. Led Sprint
    Planning for platform team. Experienced in a culture of culture of
    code reviews, code style guides, etc. Owned the effort on writing
    our Python style guide.


Education

2006-2011

    _Masters Degree in Computer Science with partial work towards a PhD
    at Carnegie Mellon University_ (Pittsburgh, PA)

    Advisor: Garth Gibson.

    -   Conducted research in CMU’s Parallel Data Lab group under the
        programs of the Petascale Data Storage Institute and the
        Institute For Reliable High Performance Information Technology.
    -   Benchmarked Flash-based SSDs and evaluated cost efficiency of
        different hybrid configurations. Papers:
        http://www.pdl.cmu.edu/PDL-FTP/PDSI/simsa-pdsw08.pdf and
        http://www.pdl.cmu.edu/PDL-FTP/PDSI/Polte.pdf. Included work
        inside the Linux kernel.
    -   Collaborated with Los Alamos National Laboratory in the design
        and implementation of the Parallel Log-structured File System.
        Papers: http://institutes.lanl.gov/plfs/plfs.pdf and
        http://www.pdsi-scidac.org/events/PDSW09/resources/pdsw09-final9.pdf
    -   Investigated the design of parallel filesystems for HPC built on
        top of BigTable-like software. Paper:
        http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~svp/2009hotcloud-tablefs.pdf

1999-2005

    _Bachelor of Arts and Master of Engineering in Computer Science at
    Cornell University_ (Ithaca, NY)

    Emphasis on courses in Distributed Systems, Networks, and Theory.

    -   Independent Research with Prof. Emin Gun Sirer - (2001- 2002)
        Researched and developed an anonymizing peer-to-peer overlay
        network based on dining cryptographer nets called ‘Herbivore’.
        White paper available:
        http://www.cs.cornell.edu/People/egs/herbivore
    -   Cornell University Neurobiology Department - (2005) Software
        engineer for audio experimentation and education cross platform
        workbench program called “Koé”, providing functionality similar
        to professional synthesis applications, such as Reaktor.


Hobbies and Other Activities

-   Hiking
-   Vegetarian Cooking
-   Losing at Dota
-   Taking care of my pet rabbit
